---
Title: 2014 Year Review
Description: I review my year in posts, projects, code demos and learning in web design during 2014.
Date: 14-12-30
Source: 
Tags: [personal, codepen, code, kirby]
---
## From my perspective

This year has been a great year. It was a year of ‘flat style’, long shadow, hollow buttons and parallaxing aplenty - simplifying but enhancing with animation was the general trend from my point of view. 

My [new site design](/blog/portfolio-redesign/) launched in its current guise following some of those themes. This is my portfolio site using mobile-first responsive design approach and a much bolder colour palette than previously. 

### I have been fine-tuning ever since

*	I switched away from WordPress which was overboard for my needs and too slow. I now use a ‘flat-file’ CMS system which has given my site incredible performance. 
*	This is the first site I have implemented BEM (Block Element Modifier), and I have to say I am won over. Thinking modularly helps focus exactly on what is on the page and easy to build structure and styling upon.
*	My stylesheet is now ~11.7Kb which is only 1Kb more than my previous site theme, but which is also responsive. 
*	I trimmed 22Kb from the larger and more popular project images, images I felt previously optimised. 
*	Added dns-prefetch for the assets I use and preload the CodePen script for my blog pages to assist page rendering speed. 

## What I had to say

It was also the first time I have blogged as a part of my site and I published my thoughts on a few topics. 

*	[New Site Design](/blog/portfolio-redesign/) - Announcing my new site design and the changes made to the design and CMS.
*	[Early Days](/blog/early-days/) – Reflecting on my start in the web design industry.
*	[Show your working](/blog/show-your-working/) – Pointing out that sharing some of my demo and development as I practice coding has given me more work to share and others to learn from.
*	[Animation Inspiration](/blog/animation-inspiration/) - Pondering on the prevalence of animation now that Googles Material Design style has been unveiled.

## A great year for CodePen

CodePen is a place for code experiments and demos. I had a few of those this year.

*	First Pen of the year was [Expanding Line Navigation](/blog/expanding-line-navigation/), me playing around with some links styles using CSS animation. It was surprisingly close to what would be a trend of the year as Google unveiled its Material Design style in August.
*	[Chicken Swing](/blog/chicken-swing-svg/), a silly SVG demo, was incredibly popular in a way I wasn’t expecting and got over 2000+ views. 
*	My top 5 [Popular Pens](http://codepen.io/plfstr/popular/) collectively earned more than 10,000 views and over 150 hearts!

## Phew… Any more?

*	I released a [Kirbytext plugin](/blog/kirbytag-codepen/) for Kirby 2 which has gone on to widely used in Kirby CMS. It has been included in a collated list of essential [Kirby 2 Plugins & Extensions](https://github.com/JonasDoebertin/kirby-plugins/#kirbytext-extensions), a great resource for Kirby users.
*	My 404 page was included on [reallygood404](http://reallygood404.com/sites/paulfosterdesign/).

## In 2015

In the coming year, I think the wider industry trends will probably continue in a Material Design inspired style, with even more overt touch animations and the layer opacity effects introduced with iOS8 will become more commonplace.

Personally, in 2015 I aim to experiment further with SVG and animation, and launch more side-projects.

Thanks for reading!

_If you prefer to read my thoughts in smaller portions, I'm [@plfstr](https://twitter.com/plfstr) on Twitter._