---
Title: Year Review 2018
Description: My 2018 Year Review - personal learning, projects and what was posted in 2018.
Date: 18-12-31
Source: 
Tags: personal, codepen, review, pwa, web
---
_2018 was truly the year ‘Dark Mode’ was enabled. MacOS, Android, Windows and services-galore, all enabled ‘dark mode’ colour schemes. Are people working later?_

## Personal 

I had my own dark mode of a year and quietly got on with learning some more. The learning list never seems to shrink. I added and crossed off more skills than ever previously.

JavaScript has been all consuming as usual this year, with the move to a ‘serverless’ and component way of working, plus CSS-in-JS too! I tried Vue and Web Components - adapting to this new approach.

This year I focused on and felt I improved my JavaScript ES6 skills by converting my current projects JS and working on future projects.

## Projects

* I am currently working on a site redesign. It should be ready soon!
* Continued pushing [updates to Colordinates](/blog/colordinates/). Now with a service worker to function offline, much improved code and micro-copy. 
* [Colordinates was accepted](https://appsco.pe/app/colordinates) to the entertainment category of Appscope, a directory of PWAs.
* Far too much tweaking of the _archived_ [blackandwhitesquares.com site](/work/blackandwhitesquares/) - cutting weight, making subtle improvements while staying true to the original. Its a habit.
* My popular server [404 page](/404notfound/) now has the animated smoke it deserves!
* [Hop Over Navigation Badge](/blog/hop-over-navigation/), my CSS animation link hover effect, passed _50,000_ views on CodePen!
* Top 5 [popular CodePen projects](https://codepen.io/plfstr/popular) collectively passed 85,000 views! 

There are projects waiting in the shadows. They need pushing out into the light! 

## Posted

This year was more about learning and less about writing. I still enjoy writing, but at this stage it makes sense to focus time elsewhere. Heres what I did jot down!

* I looked once again at [Mobile Browser Choice Revisited](/blog/mobile-browser-choice-revisited/), at the changes in mobile platform choices for browsers and features. 
* Celebrated [10 years blogging](https://wp.me/p8cZJl-1oC) in one form or another across Tumblr, WordPress.com and here on [paulfosterdesign/blog/](/blog/).
* Just for fun, a [parody clickbait advert](https://wp.me/p8cZJl-1si) for my site.

_You can [subscribe to by blog](/blog/) (via RSS) for my web thoughts and [my CodePen profile](/https://codepen.io/plfstr) for my code demos, as and when I think them._

**Thanks for reading!**