---
title: Year Review 2019
description: Pauls 2019 Year Review - Peek behind the curtain of a years work, posts and coding.
date: 2019-12-31
tags: [personal, yearreview, kirby, codepen, colordinates, printtheme]
---
Well, it's the end of another year. Another new look and a look back!

## Personal

The site redesign took up a lot of time and pacing about, it was the main focus of the year.

* Notice anything different? [Redesigning paulfosterdesign](/) took a large portion of my time! There will be a write-up post in the new year, detailing the redesign. 
* Continued pushing updates to [Colordinates app](/blog/colordinates/) to improve accessibility.
* Colordinates also features on [weshareapps.com](https://weshareapps.com/app/colordinates/) and elsewhere I found Colordinates for sale at €.99. The ultimate outcome of releasing free stuff online - someone else charging for it.
* Passed the reins and let [Kirby CodePen plugin](/blog/kirbytag-codepen/) pass to someone on the Kirby team for Kirby v3.
* Just for fun, I rewrote my JS amends to [blackandwhitesquares.com](/work/blackandwhitesquares/) as jQuery (yes) and realised how much I had forgotten. It's more authentic to how I would have done it at the time. I was surprised once again, how concise it is to write.

## CodePen

I didn't create anything for CodePen this year. I got sidetracked learning web components and hope to have a few example demos next year. 

* [E-lit-tricity](https://codepen.io/plfstr/full/OGXMdQ), a quicker overview of the UK electrical grid carbon impact, as the others I found online were slow to load.
* [Print Theme Customiser](https://codepen.io/plfstr/full/VwZqyjM) began as a plain HTML example of [my Tumblr theme](/work/print-theme/), which turned into an interactive version you can customise via CSS custom variables. I’ll write up a post in the new year.
* [Hop Over Notification Badge](/blog/hop-over-navigation/) passed 57,500 visits. 

_Check out my [CodePen profile](https://codepen.io/plfstr) too for my latest demos._

## Blogged

My redesign took a lot of time designing and coding was a long enough look at my content. I didn't get to writing much. 

* [Colordinates App A11Y](/blog/colordinates-app-a11y/), an in-depth post detailing the the accessibility (A11Y) considerations I made and improved, in the app.

### On my personal blog 

_I have a personal blog at paulfosterdesign.wordpress.com_

* My reaction to [Automatic Acquires Tumblr](https://paulfosterdesign.wordpress.com/2019/08/14/automatic-acquires-tumblr/) and how WordPress and Tumblr may work together.
* I watch a lot of presentations/talks from conferences about web development. I see the same niggly mistakes in presentations so I wrote [Presentation Pointers](https://paulfosterdesign.wordpress.com/2019/10/23/presentation-pointers/) to help avoid them.

**Thanks for reading**

_Follow me [on Twitter](https://twitter.com/plfstr) for thoughts as they happen or point your RSS feed reader at my blog feed and be surprised by the odd occasion I decide to post something webby._