---
title: Year Review 2020
description: Pauls 2020 (Pandemic) Year Review - What I busied myself with, HTML-wise, in the year that was, ‘twenty twenty’
date: 2020-12-31
tags: [personal, yearreview, portfolio, kirby, codepen, colordinates, printtheme]
---

With my portfolio redesign live, some weight was lifted. I had a productive start to the year before, well before you know, the pandemic. I focused on improving my portfolio, some JS-focused CodePen projects and writing.

## Personal

* Worked mainly on my portfolio after its redesign. It was in a ‘minimum viable product’ state. I polished, improved and refactored during the year.
* Cut my own hair for the first time. It does not look good.
* I'm offically a GitHub [Arctic Code Vault Contributor](https://archiveprogram.github.com) thanks to [Kirby Text plugin](/blog/kirbytag-codepen/) and other open source project contributions. So one thousand years from now, if you are still running Kirby v2 (rather than v200+ by then), you will still be able to embed CodePen demos!

## Written

* [Portfolio Redesign 2020](/blog/portfolio-redesign-2020/)! The design, code and platform choices I made.
* Explaining [Print Theme Customiser](/blog/print-theme-customiser/), an interactive CodePen I created last year, which customises [Print Theme](/work/print-theme/) via CSS custom properties.
* [Colordinates Turns 5](/blog/colordinates-turns-five/). Looking back at my geolocation-based colour app. 
* On Colordinates anniversary, I took another look at the app in [Colordinates Redesign](/blog/colordinates-redesign/). How I would design and code the app today.
* Forgot to write a more timely post about [my 404 page](/404page/), so I created a page to highlight the design and the websites my 404 has featured on.
* I created [HTML Memory Test](/blog/html-elements-test/) after being reminded how many HTML tags exist.

## CodePen

* [HTML Tags Memory Test](https://codepen.io/plfstr/details/zYqQeRw) - How many HTML tags can you remember? Pen went kind-of viral in the web community and has reached 10,000+ views!
* [Grid Collection](https://codepen.io/collection/nxmmwb). Trying various JS frameworks on National Grid stats viewer.
* Collectively, top 5 [popular pens](https://codepen.io/plfstr/popular/) passed 100,000 views!
* [Hop Over Notification Badge](/blog/hop-over-navigation/) passed 60,000 views.
* [Chicken Swing SVG](/blog/chicken-swing-svg/) passed 5000 views.

That was my 2020. Stay safe.

_Follow me [on Twitter](https://twitter.com/plfstr) or point your RSS reader at my blogs feed for future posts._