---
title: Year Review 2021
description: Pauls 2021 Year Review - What did I get done in twenty twenty-one?
date: 2020-12-21
tags: [yearreview, codepen, portfolio]
---

Twenty twenty-one has come and gone. So lets see what I got done!

## PFD Site

I spent a lot of time refining the site - then contradicting that by trying out some of the new advances in the web:

### Refinement

- Re-write of most of my [work](/work/) pages to add more detail.
- Condensed [email marketing](/work/email-marketing) to a single page.
- CSS refinements across the site.

### Experiment

- Container queries
- CSS logical properties
- Adding IndieWeb features
- Creating my own font based on my logo! Its not quite finished yet.

I didn't write much this year. I was behind the scenes tinkering with the site and working on some other projects.

## PFD Blog

* In [HTML Memory Tested](/blog/html-memory-tested/) I wrote about the response to my HTML Elements Memory Test and some of the many places it featured. Achieved a personal goal, to feature in a newsletter I subscribe to. 
* [Chicken Swing Dynamic](/blog/chicken-swing-dynamic/), an interactive version of Chicken Swing with the Web Animations API to dynamically control the level of swing via an input slider. 
* [Indieweb Included](/blog/indieweb-included/) about the IndieWeb features I have included in the site and what that enables.

## Projects

* [reToothbrush](/retoothbrush/) - An app I built for myself to keep track of when I need to change to a new toothbrush. Its been quietly live a while but waiting on the scheduled notification API. 

## CodePen

* I was given a [Code Mug](https://codepen.io/plfstr/pen/GRWVPxJ) as a gift, so obviously I created a pen to prove the code worked.
* [Chicken Swing (Dynamic)](https://codepen.io/plfstr/full/XWaaZRW) (see blog post).
* [HTML Tags Memory Test](https://codepen.io/plfstr/details/zYqQeRw) has received 20,000+ views and 60+ likes this year.

Thanks for reading. Stay safe out there.