---
title: Year Review 2022
description:  Year Review 2022 - What Paul learnt, projected and posted in the year MMXXII
date: 2022-12-29
tags: [yearreview, codepen, portfolio]
---

There was a lot of good web stuff released in 2022. I had a year of learning more than ever. Here is what I put live.

## PFD

I couldn’t help but keep refining things here:

- Individual transform properties (transform, rotate, scale) for my logo and featured image shadow detail to reduce repetition.
- Replacing top, right, bottom, left with inset: 0, for the featured image shadows.
- Larger work images have WebP sources and homepage thumbnail images have hi-res srcset.

_I also added my [product design](/productdesign/) degree work._

## Project 

- Brush Swap - When did you change your toothbrush? After revealing it [in last year's review](/blog/year-review-2021/#projects) (then called reToothbrush), I removed store.js for localstorage, added \<dialog> confirmation and overhauled the design. 
- Continuing to improve [Colordinates accessibility](/blog/colordinates-app-a11y/) and added \<output> tag.

## Blog

- [Brush Swap](/blog/brush-swap/), about my latest project, an app I built to remind me when my toothbrush needs replacing.
- [Elitricity](/blog/elitricity/), a dashboard of the UK’s energy grid use, updated to use Lit 2.0 components.
- Updated [HTML Memory Tested](/blog/html-memory-tested/) with more sightings. Its been great to see it appear in conference talks.

## CodePen

- [HTML Memory Test](/blog/html-elements-test/) required tweaking to correct some tags after, remarkably, someone completed it! Now passed 30,000+ views and 100+ likes.
- [Word Mood](https://codepen.io/plfstr/full/gOzVLJV), a tool that shows the positive versus negative words ratio in pasted text.
- [El-pine-tricity](https://codepen.io/plfstr/full/YzvqGNY), a fork of e-lit-itricity using Alpine JS. Part of my [X-tricity collection](https://codepen.io/collection/nxmmwb), displaying the UK energy grid via different JS frameworks.

Thanks for reading.

_You can follow this blog via RSS. Or read my latest thoughts on Twitter ([@plfstr](https://twitter.com/plfstr)) or Mastodon ([@plfstr@mastodon.social](https://mastodon.social/@plfstr))._
