---
published: true
title: A look back on 2021
---
So, yeah, it's been a minute since I updated this site. And by minute, I mean almost a year and a half.

I just did some backend work on it to fully migrate this site to AWS. I had it fronted by CloudFlare previously. They were great, I just wanted to consolidate resources and have a foundation that I could potentially add automation to, for subdomains and side projects. While doing this migration, I realized I hadn't updated the content in awhile. So here we are.

Reading some of my last posts from early in the pandemic, I'm reminded of those early days. Yes, it was scary and uncertain, but in some ways, it felt like a snow day. There was a novelty to it, working from home was a nice break from the office, there were memes we all passed around, and we all had some sense that the worst would be over in a few weeks. It was spring and it gave us an excuse to hang out with friends outdoors more, anyway. 

Two years into this, things feel pretty bleak. We had a brief respite last summer when a lot of us got vaccinated, but that quickly extinguished when the Delta variant hit. As I write this, we're in the worst of the Omicron wave. My friends who are teachers, nurses, and parents are all burned out. The worst thing is we've lost the light at the end of the tunnel; it's really not clear when we'll be through the pandemic, or even what "normal" will even look like. What's become clear is that it's going to be a rough road there.

On top of that, there's all the other, intertwined crises. The supply chain is a mess. We're experiencing the worst crime wave since the 80s. The climate is getting increasingly extreme; in the NW, we've had some awful fires, an ice storm that left some in Portland without power for 10 days, and a record-smashing heat wave. There are increasing geopolitical tensions between the West and China/Russia.

That all being said, I'm doing okay. Really. 2021 was a year of ups and downs, but it was good, overall. I'm grateful that the vaccines were created and distributed so quickly. There was never any guarantee they'd be effective, and they've proven to be. I'm grateful to have been able to spend more time with friends and family post-vaccination, after a pretty isolating 2020. 

# 2021 Highlights

In March, I got promoted to senior engineer at VEVO. I'm going on my fifth year here and still love it. I'm perpetually grateful for good coworkers and challenging problems to solve.

In May, my sister moved to Portland. It's been excellent living in the same city again. We usually trade off hosting dinner every other week or so.

In August, I moved out of my small studio apartment in the Pearl into a four-bedroom house in the suburbs. It was a big change, and took a few months just to furnish it, but it was most definitely a welcome upgrade. My favorite aspects have been having a dedicated office that I can physically leave at the end of the workday, and having a gym.

In October, I bought a gravel bike (basically a more rugged road bike) and did a bike trip with my dad in the San Juan Islands. He retired earlier this year, and it's been great to spend more time together.

# By the numbers

I did a lot of reading this year. I read 11,321 pages in 39 books. The longest was Douglas Hofstadter's "Gödel, Escher, Bach", at 777 pages, and the shortest was Carlo Rovelli's "Seven Brief Lessons on Physics," at 96 pages. That's an average of about 30 pages per day. "Gödel, Escher, Bach" was a new year's resolution to read, and it was excellent. 

I also listened to 16,878 minutes of Audible books. Yes, 281 hours. I usually have an audiobook going during a run/cooking/doing dishes/driving/getting ready in the morning/etc, so it's easy to crank through a bunch of them.
