---
layout: post
title: Progress...
---

A few thoughts on where we are - and where we need to get to. 

When I wrote my last update I was set on getting GreenCloud to be revenue positive by EOY 2022.  We have achieved that with Net Visibility using GreenCloud to perform their data extraction and NationWide Energy Consultants coming onboard also. These companies has expressed an interest in being involved with GreenCloud early on and we have identified suitable tasks that we can deliver for them.

It is not the long term aim for us to write customers software. We are creating a system that is easy to use and people can write software for themselves, test locally and then deploy into GreenCloud and achieve their goals with the least hassle possible. 

We are going to achieve this, but as with most things it always takes a bit longer than you would like...

GreenCloud is running on a self funded model with some assistance from Innovate UK ( more about that later ) - as such each piece of software we write is carefully thought out and planned so as to make the best use of the funds we have. It doesn't always go to plan and this brings me to a core , but simple concept of communication.

It is amazing that , regardless of my emphasis - communication can be hard. Green Cloud is a disparate team across the globe. Its something that I am proud of but also has its challenges. For example, getting us together when there are people in 4 different time zones or the language barrier (French, Spanish, Portuguese ). I'm British and speak English, the other members of Green Cloud speak only a little which can make for some interesting times and innovative solutions in how to translate!

We have at our finger tips the means to send message around the globe is seconds, it is astonishing. And yet at times they can go unanswered or just missed. This lack of communication costs start ups like Green Cloud huge amounts in lost productivity. I'm old enough to know that projects seldom run from A to B in a flawless manner. Life just isn't like that. Its imperative to share the problems and talk them through. Even the act of verbalising your challenges often leads to new insights on how to resolve them. And it can be THAT simple and yet often people will refuse to do it. 

I think there area a few reasons for this -: 

1. Perceived Weakness - You are employed to deliver a task and are struggling to do so. It happens - its not ideal but how you handle it will speak volumes for your commitment to the team and the cause. Simply saying nothing only adds to frustration. A problem shared is a problem halved, right?

2. Peer Pressure - often there is a pressure to appear to know everything and be able to solve everything. Especially in this 'Google' age. You could ascribe to this method of thinking but you are hoping the Google knows about what you are working on. I cannot seem to find anything about Superscape Control Language on the internet so how would I learn about WAITF statements.... ( that an incredibly obtuse language and command I've just referenced ). Ask, seek help, talk to people. Dare I say the phrase I hate, REACH OUT! One thing I've found from experience is how much people WANT to help you once you phrase the problem politely and kindly! Few people know that answer to seemingly everything. 

3. Wanting to please - sure being able to please the boss is important, but the boss also wants progress. Keeping quiet and trying to power through but at the same time losing patience with people just doesn't work. What is required is good communication. 

Being able to time and phrase your communication correctly to the audience who need to hear it is a key skill that all software developers should aim to work hard on. Does it make sense to report back, in incredibly technically detail with someone in a management position? Or, would it be better to let some time pass - address the challenge and report back in a timely manner later on with a carefully chosen response that will be well absorb be it positive or negative.

I haven't finished with this topic yet! I am sure that, in time there are going to be more challenges ahead on this theme but I will keep banging the drum on communication.

Onto some good things!

During the last few months we applied to two organizations for help in developing the GreenCloud idea. One of these was TechNation and I am pleased to say that we were accepted onto that platform after a successful application. At the time of writing we have not been able to make good all that TechNation offers in terms of a platform for growth, such has our focus been on delivering the core technology, but in time I am sure GreenCloud will benefit from this relationship.

Secondly and perhaps more exciting/astonishingly we were accepted for funding on the FastStart programme with Innovate UK. We were alerted to this programme in July of this year and had our application submitted just before the deadline at the end of August. We then awaited for a month whilst Innovate reviewed the application. As the date drew closer it became more and more nerve wracking to know if we had succeeded or not. My thoughts were - even if we didn't land the money we would still continue. BUT, having some help with developing the software that runs GreenCloud was going to be a huge benefit. We have secured close to £40,000 towards finishing the web site and core technology. 

There were plans to deliver a new version of the Dispatcher technology, but for a variety of reasons we had to scrap that work. As ever with small businesses we had to pivot and yet in doing so - we not believe we will have a superior solution again as we develop the thinking around GreenCloud. 

This money is going to allow us to deliver a whole host of upgrades to the software that runs GreenCloud which ultimately will make it faster and easier to use - and ALSO add new functionality to. At the time of writing we are still finalising some due diligence with Innovate but we are very excited to be in this rather fortunate position and look forward to over delivering on what we want to achieve in approximately three months time.

Finally - it is incredibly heartening to see the technology come alive and be used by the first few customers. Our thanks to Neil Curtiss @Netvisibility.co.uk for joining the vision on what GreenCloud can deliver. We also look forward to finishing and onboarding NationWide Energy Associates. We have others waiting join , so why not join them? Register your interest with us and join a cleaner and smarter way to perform serverless computing that just doesn't just benefit us but also others! 

