---
title: Year Review 2023
description: My 2023 year review. The year flew by, along with a few milestones!
date: 2023-12-23
tags: [yearreview, codepen, vue, milestone]
---

# 2023

Another year has flown by, along with a few milestones&hellip;

## 2013–2023

I've been yearly reviewing for a decade. 

The format has changed in that time, from a long article reviewing both the year and whole web industry, to the more concise summary you read today. 

It’s a bit of a commitment, but good to have a final bit of motivation at the end of the year. 

## PFD

Its also good to keep tabs on the changes I have made to this site. This year the web kept releasing new features. So I had to try them! 

+ Further styles refinement. CSS nesting to augment the current <span aria-label="block element modifier">`.Block_Element-Modifier`</span> (<abbr>BEM</abbr>) approach. Plus CSS `:has()` selector to style section subheadings.
+ CodePen embed previews are now preloaded to improve perceived loading time.
+ Added an [apps](/apps/) page to find all my web apps in one place.

## Posted
+ [Memory Test Milestone](/blog/50k-mem-test-views/) as my HTML test passed 50k views on CodePen!
+ HTML Tags Memory Test also featured in a few newsletters! There's a list of sightings I keep updated in [Memory Tested](/blog/html-memory-tested/#sites-featured).

## CodePen 

+ [HTML Memory Test](/blog/html-elements-test/) added `pattern` validation to give incorrect guess feedback.
+ Added [ES6-tricity](https://codepen.io/plfstr/full/qByKRdy) using vanilla JavaScript as part of my [X-tricity collection](https://codepen.io/collection/nxmmwb).
+ Updated [Colordinates 2](/blog/colordinates-2/) to Vue 3 after V2 was depreciated.

## Projects
+ [Brush Swap](/blog/brush-swap/) moved from Moment.js, to the lighter weight Day.js to power the date calculations.
+ I built [HNue app](/hnue/) - an improved version of Hacker News, in Vue 3, with a nicer reading experience.
+ Got lots of back issues with [Elitricity](/blog/elitricity/) and Brush Swap wrapped up and likely created some new ones for the new year.

Thanks for reading today and over the last decade!

_Follow my latest keyboard strokes via <abbr title="Really Simple Syndication">RSS</abbr>, on [CodePen](https://codepen.io/plfstr), or [Mastodon](https://mastodon.social/invite/4sEtgZ9m)._
