---
layout: post
title: Linux fundamntals 10/06/2024
---

# LINUX 
- the core of linux operating system:
 1. commands
 2. files
 3. softwares
 4. servers

- Open Source - open source implies software with source code that anyone can inspect, modify & inhance.

- source code - Source code is the human readable instruction written in a programming language to create software.

- linux principal: 
1. everything is a file in linux [including hardware].
2. it has the ability to chain programms together for complex operations.
3. Configurational data is stored in text files in linux.It is comes really handy when we want to change the configuration of our system.

- why linux : 
1. It is open source , so we gwt community support.
2. supports wide variety of hardware.
3. lots of customizations are available.
4. most of the servers out there runs on linux systems.
5. automation is easy on linux.

- Linux Kernel : it is a part of linux operating system which manages system resources (components of computer system) & acts as bridge between software & hardware.

# DIRECTORY SYSTEM IN LINUX

- It is a system used by an operating system to manage files and directories. This system controls how data is saved and retrieved.

- Home directories:
1. for regular user : /home/username
2. for root user : /root

- User executable :
1. for regular user : /bin, /usr/bin
2. for root user : /sbin, /usr/sbin

- Mountpoints : /media, /mnt

- System Configuration : /etc

- Temporary Files : /tmp

- Kernel & Bootloader : /boot

- Server Data : /var, /srv

- System Information : /proc, /sys

- Shared Libraries : /lib, /usr/lib


-NOTE : 
1. '$' >> Regular user's shell
2. '#' >> Root user's  shell


# IMPORTANT POINTS TO REMEMBER

- Root is the most powerful account, that can create, modify & delete accounts and can make changes to the system configuration.
- Linux is case sensitive.
- avoid using spaces while creating files & directories.
- Linux kernel is not an operating system. it is a small software within linux operating system that takes commands from user and pass them to the system hardware and peripherals.


# TYPES OF ACCESS IN LINUX:

- Through console
- Through remote
- The console is a direct access to an operating system.
- The remote access where you connect to your operating system remotely over the network through ip address.

# DIFFERENCE BETWEEN USERNAME & HOSTNAME:

- In Linux, a username identifies a specific person or account on the system, while a hostname identifies the computer itself on a network.




